Many commercial pilots throughout the history of aviation have witnessed UFOs,
but unfortunately discussing their encounters has been historically taboo
and met with the same cancerous stigma that meets all of ufology. Today I wanted
to talk about the most famous UFO case in Spain, the Manisei incident, because what
if I told you about a UFO sighting a pilot couldn't ignore? In fact this sighting
was so prominent it led to the first ever commercial flight being grounded due
to UFOs. Guys it is UAPGurb I am back to analyze some more of the most interesting
UFO cases and encounters throughout history. Today the 1979 Manisei incident
where the sighting of UFOs caused a commercial flight to be grounded and
fighter jets to be scrambled. Now I'm going to use some of the original audio
of this sighting from the actual pilots in this incident, but upon my search I
found a channel called MPC Flight Recreations who actually incorporated
the original audio with an edit of what this flight and encounter may have
looked like. So I'm going to use some of his clips and I'm going to include his
video link down in the video description. Highly recommend checking that video in
his channel out because it's pretty cool. On November 11th 1979 pilot Javier
Laredo de Tejeda was forced to make an emergency landing of his TAE Super
Caravell and 109 passengers at the Manisei airport in Valencia Spain. This
emergency landing was not due to mechanical failures or rowdy passengers
but because of the pilots fear of colliding with a pair of strange red
lights in the sky. Javier's flight departed the island of Malorca after a
refueling stop for the craft's voyage from Salzburg Austria to La Palmas
near 2247 hours. It's worth mentioning the other men in the cockpit of this
Super Caravell, co-pilot Jose Ramón, Zouaza Nagore and flight mechanic
Francisco Javier Rodriguez. At roughly 2305 hours over the Mediterranean the
flight mechanic warned the crew of two visible powerful red lights to the front
left of the airplane at an altitude of near 23,000 feet.
The crew radioed to air traffic control in Barcelona to determine the source of
the lights but were told there were no other aircraft on or near Captain Javier's
flight path. The pair of red lights appear to draw closer to the aircraft.
The men were able to discern the strange lights as two powerful sources of light
with no visible solid body. When changing altitude to avoid any sort of collision
with the lights the pair mirrored the craft's new trajectory and stayed less
than half a mile to five miles away from the plane.
If you have a new seat, can you tell me if the lights are on the sea or on the air?
The craft's new traffic is close to normal for now.
It's not moving at all now, it's 5-0, the traffic is going to be between 2-3-1-6.
The vectoring of the lights towards the aircraft alongside the fact no other
aircraft were operating in the area, Captain Javier aborted the flight and made an
emergency landing at the Manisace Airport in Valencia.
He rationalized flying near the UFO completely violating all aerial safety
rules alongside the inability to make an evasive maneuver in the event of a
collision was not worth the risk of his crew and 109 passengers. Just prior to the
emergency landing, the crew detected three new UFO signals on radar, each with
an estimated diameter of 200 meters. It's worth noting these lights were
witnessed by Manisace Airport personnel as well as military personnel
specifically Marines on the nearby Manisace Air Force Base. Due to one of these
signatures passing close to the airport runways, emergency lights were lit by
land crew if by some slim possibility, the UFO was actually an errant aircraft
experiencing technical difficulties. Due to multiple sightings of these anomalous
lights, Captain Fernando Camaro was soon dispatched from the nearby Lozianos Air
Base in a Mirage F1 to identify the mysterious UFOs at 040 hours. Here, the
pilot experienced equally or even more extraordinary events than that of crew
TAE JK 297. Camaro was forced to increase his speed to 1.4 Mach or 1,074
miles per hour just to make visual contact with an object he perceived as a
truncated cone shape displaying a bright, changing color. Despite his efforts to
approach the object, it quickly disappeared from sight. The pilot was then informed of
a new radar echo indicating another object may be near Segunto. The pilot took
multiple pursuit vectors to approach the second object including traveling over
the Mediterranean and the nearby Spanish inland territories just to have the object
quickly dart away as he approached. Eventually, as Camaro neared the UFO, it
seemingly responded, acknowledging his fighter jet. It was at this time the pilot
had his avionics scrambled. The Mirage F1's electronic flight systems were jammed
and the onboard alert system warned Camaro he was actively locked on by a
continuous wave missile radar. The UFO then rapidly accelerated away towards
mainland Africa. After nearly an hour and a half of pursuit and dangerously low on
fuel, the pilot returned to base. This sighting took Spain by storm, reaching
its parliament in September of 1980. After some representatives asked for an
official explanation, it's unfortunate that the sighting was dismissed as a series
of freak optical illusions. Okay, so let's review the facts of our case.
TAE flight JK297 observed a set of red lights approaching their aircraft. After
changing their altitude from 23,000 feet to avoid any collisions with the craft,
the object matched the aircraft's trajectory and maintained a distance of 0.5
to 5 miles. Due to safety concerns of the crew, the flight decides to perform an
emergency landing. Shortly before the emergency landing, two more UFOs appear
with an estimated diameter of 200 meters. One object flies close to the nearby
airstrip so on-ground employees turn on emergency lighting in case a rogue aircraft
is in trouble. Multiple marine air-based personnel witness strange moving
lights in the sky. A Mirage F1 is dispatched to investigate and must travel
1.4 Mach to even approach near the object. The pilot observes a conical shape
before it rapidly accelerates out of sight. The pilot is ordered to pursue a
second signature which, when close, actively scrambles his avionics equipment
and onboard sensors. Please note that Kamara also states the object jammed
his attempts to lock onto it with an IR missile. Now what stands out to me most
about this case is not the crew aborting its flight path due to UFOs, but
actually the sensory equipment failure of the Mirage F1. Believe me, this
jamming has occurred multiple times in public UFO military cases. Everyone
knows the story of Commander David Fravers' tic-tac sighting in 04 off the
coast of San Diego. Did you know he says that the object's plural actively jam
the radar and sensory equipment of the jets? And even more interesting, let's
take a look at the 1976 Tehran UFO incident. This famous encounter details
the experience of Major Parviz Jafari of the Imperial Iranian Air Force. In 1976
he was one of two jets dispatched to intercept a UFO that had been detected
hovering over Tehran in his F4 Phantom 2 jet. The first of the two pilots lost
all instruments and communication abilities when approaching the object
so he was forced to turn back. Ten minutes later, Jafari was scrambled to
intercept the UFO. While traveling at Mach 1, the Major observed the object
70 miles out, instantaneously jumped 10 degrees to his right. At this distance,
the craft performed an instantaneous 26-mile jump in under a second. While
approaching the seemingly diamond-shaped UFO, a smaller, spherical object
separated from it and approached the F4 Phantom 2. Jafari's only instinct was
to engage the smaller object with his weaponry, but when attempting to target
the object, all of its instruments on board, including targeting and radio,
went haywire. Frightening Jafari tremendously, he made the decision to
emergency exit if the object approached within two miles of him. The pilot
then performed evasive maneuvers to fly away from the object, where his
instrumentation returned to normal and he regained contact with aerial command.
This Tehran incident is one of my favorite encounters, and soon I'd like to
make a video on global Air Force UFO encounters, but I just wanted to throw
that in as another instance in which a military fighter jet experienced
total instrument failure when engaging a UFO. Like with any credible sighting,
with multiple eyewitnesses and multi-sensory data, we need to visit the
Midwest-level debunk panel. So for this specific case, apparently the lights
the Super Caravelle saw in 1979 were the lights of the combustion towers of
the Escobrera refinery near Cartagena. This stationary lights do not account
for the fact the trained pilots said that the lights approached their aircraft
and maintained altitude while they performed evasive maneuvers and maintained
a close distance the aircraft of 0.5 to 5 miles. Apparently these lights sent
the captain into an anxiety attack, forcing him to land the plane and as
well as the co-pilot and flight mechanic, they did not seem to argue with this
rationale and they must have been inflicted with anxiety attacks as well.
The moving lights that were seen by multiple menace airport personnel and
nearby Marines, as well as the UFO that was seen near the airstrip, thus the
emergency lighting was turned on in case there was a rogue aircraft, is apparently
stars, planets, the same thing with every case. Everything just boils down to
trained pilots and trained observers or people on the ground misconstruing
Venus or Jupiter as a UFO, even though these lights are flashing multi-colored
move or are a craft that are identifiable. The Mirage F1 explanation is both
the most comical and most reasonable at the same time. At this time in 1979,
the Iranian hostage crisis was being resolved and stationed near the
Mediterranean was the US 6th Fleet. The scrambling of the instrumentation is said
due to powerful electronic scrambling signatures on board to LHP to Iwo Jima
helicopter carriers. However, pilot Fernando Kamara rejects this explanation stating
that he was both too far away from this fleet to interfere with his flight
navigation, radio, emergency control, so forth. And this doesn't account for the
truncated cone shape that he witnessed with his own eyes as well as a craft that
would speed away from him as he would approach it going 1.4 Mach. Furthermore,
this explanation of the 6th Fleet does not explain the instance on which he
tried to lock onto the UFO with an IR missile, where his systems were actively
jammed. So to summarize that debunk panel, we have a confusion of stars. We have
a refinery tower that a trained pilot gets an anxiety attack and must land his
plane. And we have a pilot who is seen in a mirage with his own eyes and his jet.
And it's just a US fleet. That's who knows how nearby. So to me at least that
debunk panel doesn't hold up. I think that's a lot of coincidences at once that
just does not stand up to me. I think this case is incredibly interesting and I
think it is one of the world's most interesting cases. And it is, no matter how
you look at it, true or false, the first recorded story of a commercial airliner
being grounded due to a sighting of a UFO. But what do you think on this case?
Have you heard about this case? Because it flies kind of under the radar to me,
but it is Spain's most famous UFO case. If you've heard of it, let me know when
did you hear about it? What do you think about it? If you haven't, what do you think
about it? Think it's real? Or do you think it's fake? Or do you think it's an
anxiety attack by a pilot and multiple eyewitnesses being confused? And I guess
the similarities between that and the 1976 Tehran incident with the Mirage jet
are just bad a coincidence. But I'll be fully transparent. I think this case is legitimate.
Thank you guys and I hope you enjoyed this short documentary, another one. I know
we're supposed to be on our iceberg part three and that will become and I just
have been struck with some inspiration lately to make some of these documentary
cases. I think they're fascinating. I have a ton more. I want to make a sort of
global Air Force UFO encounter video pretty soon. I have some interesting cases
from the U.S. Peru as well and all over the world. So stay tuned. Let me know in
the comments what kind of video you want to see next. Like and subscribe to the
channel and I'll catch you guys next time.